EASY

1. Who invented Java Programming?  
a) Guido van Rossum  
b) James Gosling  
c) Dennis Ritchie  
d) Bjarne Stroustrup  
Correct Answer: b) James Gosling  

2. Which statement is true about Java?  
a) Java is a sequence-dependent programming language  
b) Java is a code dependent programming language  
c) Java is a platform-dependent programming language  
d) Java is a platform-independent programming language  
Correct Answer: d) Java is a platform-independent programming language  

3. What is the correct definition of a package?  
a) Collection of classes  
b) Collection of editing tools  
c) Collection of interfaces  
d) Collection of interfaces and classes  
Correct Answer: d) Collection of interfaces and classes  

4. What are arrays in Java?  
a) Objects  
b) Primitive data type  
c) Object references  
d) None  
Correct Answer: a) Objects  

5. Which component is used to compile, debug, and execute Java programs?  
a) JRE  
b) JIT  
c) JDK  
d) JVM  
Correct Answer: c) JDK  

6. Which one of the following is not a Java feature?  
a) Object-oriented  
b) Use of pointers  
c) Portable  
d) Dynamic and Extensible  
Correct Answer: b) Use of pointers  

7. What is not the use of “this” keyword in Java?  
a) Referring to the instance variable when a local variable has the same name  
b) Passing itself to the method of the same class  
c) Passing itself to another method  
d) Calling another constructor in constructor chaining  
Correct Answer: b) Passing itself to the method of the same class  

8. What is a correct syntax to output "Hello World" in Java?  
a) System.out.println("Hello World");  
b) print("Hello World");  
c) Console.WriteLine("Hello World");  
d) echo("Hello World");  
Correct Answer: a) System.out.println("Hello World");  

9. Which data type is used to create a variable that should store text?  
a) String  
b) myString  
c) string  
d) Txt  
Correct Answer: a) String  

10. To declare an array in Java, define the variable type with:  
a) ()  
b) []  
c) \  
d) {}  
Correct Answer: b) []  

11. Which operator is used to add together two values?  
a) + Sign  
b) - Sign  
c) & Sign  
d) * Sign  
Correct Answer: a) + Sign  

12. Which keyword is used to import a package from the Java API library?  
a) Package  
b) Import  
c) Getlib  
d) lib  
Correct Answer: b) Import  

13. What is the correct way to create an object called myObj of MyClass?  
a) new myObj = MyClass();  
b) class MyClass = new myObj();  
c) class myObj = new MyClass();  
d) MyClass myObj = new MyClass();  
Correct Answer: d) MyClass myObj = new MyClass();  

14. Which keyword is used to return a value inside a method?  
a) get  
b) break  
c) return  
d) Void  
Correct Answer: c) return  

15. Which keyword is used to create a class in Java?  
a) MyClass  
b) class()  
c) class  
d) className  
Correct Answer: c) class  

MEDIUM

1. How do you create a variable with the numeric value 5?  
a) float x = 5;  
b) x = 5;  
c) int x = 5;  
d) num x = 5  
Correct Answer: c) int x = 5  

2. How do you create a variable with the floating number 2.8?  
a) x = 2.8f;  
b) byte x = 2.8f  
c) float x = 2.8f  
d) int x = 2.8f;  
Correct Answer: c) float x = 2.8f  

3. In Java, which statement about inheritance is true?  
a) A class can extend multiple classes  
b) A subclass inherits methods from its superclass  
c) Inheritance can only be achieved through interfaces  
d) Constructors are inherited by subclasses  
Correct Answer: b) A subclass inherits methods from its superclass  

4. What is the result of using the equals() method in Java?  
a) It compares object references  
b) It compares object content  
c) It must be overridden in every class  
d) It compares class types  
Correct Answer: b) It compares object content  

5. What is the purpose of the instanceof operator in Java?  
a) To check the type of an object  
b) To create an instance of a class  
c) To cast an object to a different type  
d) To compare two objects  
Correct Answer: a) To check the type of an object  

6. Which of the following is a feature of Java’s garbage collection?  
a) Manual memory management  
b) Automatic memory management  
c) Explicit memory allocation  
d) None of the above  
Correct Answer: b) Automatic memory management  

7. Which of the following statements about static members is true?  
a) Static members are associated with the instance of a class  
b) Static members can be accessed without creating an instance of a class  
c) Static members cannot be inherited  
d) Static members can only be private  
Correct Answer: b) Static members can be accessed without creating an instance of a class  

8. Which of the following is a correct way to declare a static inner class?  
a) public class Outer { static class Inner {} }  
b) public class Outer { Inner static {} }  
c) static class Outer { class Inner {} }  
d) class Outer { static class Inner {} }  
Correct Answer: a) public class Outer { static class Inner {} }  

9. In Java, what is method overloading?  
a) Having the same method name with different parameters in the same class  
b) Having the same method name with the same parameters in different classes  
c) Changing the method implementation in subclasses  
d) Using the same method name across different packages  
Correct Answer: a) Having the same method name with different parameters in the same class  

10. What does it mean when a class is declared as abstract?  
a) The class cannot have constructors  
b) The class cannot be instantiated  
c) The class cannot have fields  
d) The class cannot implement interfaces  
Correct Answer: b) The class cannot be instantiated  

11. What is the significance of overriding the hashCode() method?  
a) To change the default hashing behavior  
b) To ensure consistent behavior with equals()  
c) To improve performance  
d) To enable object cloning  
Correct Answer: b) To ensure consistent behavior with equals()  

12. Which of the following is NOT a type of inner class?  
a) Member inner class  
b) Local inner class  
c) Anonymous inner class  
d) External inner class  
Correct Answer: d) External inner class  

13. Which of the following is true about the Object class in Java?  
a) It is the superclass of all classes  
b) It cannot be extended  
c) It contains only abstract methods  
d) It is not part of the Java API  
Correct Answer: a) It is the superclass of all classes  

14. Which method can be used to find the highest value of x and y?  
a) Math.largest(x,y)  
b) Math.maximum(x,y)  
c) Math.max(x,y)  
d) Math.maxNum(x,y)  
Correct Answer: c) Math.max(x,y)  

15. How do you insert COMMENTS in Java code?  
a) /* This is a comment  
b) # This is a comment  
c) // This is a comment  
d) */ This is a comment  
Correct Answer: c) // This is a comment  

1. In the execution of the divided by zero statement, which of the following exceptions is thrown?  
a) ArithmeticException  
b) NumberFormatException  
c) NullPointerException  
d) None  
Correct Answer: a) ArithmeticException  

2. Under which situation, is the finalize() method called?  
a) Before a variable goes out of scope  
b) Before garbage collection  
c) Before an object goes out of scope  
d) None  
Correct Answer: b) Before garbage collection  

3. Which of the following is a type of polymorphism in Java Programming?  
a) Multiple polymorphism  
b) Compile time polymorphism  
c) Multilevel polymorphism  
d) Execution time polymorphism  
Correct Answer: b) Compile time polymorphism  

4. What is Truncation in Java?  
a) Floating-point value assigned to a Floating type  
b) Floating-point value assigned to an integer type  
c) Integer value assigned to floating type  
d) Integer value assigned to floating type  
Correct Answer: b) Floating-point value assigned to an integer type  

5. Why Use the ‘volatile’ Keyword in Java?  
a) Ensures a variable’s value never changes  
b) Guarantees single-threaded access to a variable  
c) Signals that a variable’s value may change unexpectedly  
d) Forces simultaneous access to a variable by multiple threads  
Correct Answer: c) Signals that a variable’s value may change unexpectedly  

6. What Does the ‘finally’ Block Execute in Java?  
a) Only if an exception occurs  
b) Only if no exception occurs  
c) Regardless of whether an exception occurs or not  
d) It’s not a valid construct in Java  
Correct Answer: c) Regardless of whether an exception occurs or not  

7. What is a Lambda Expression in Java Primarily Used For?  
a) Defining anonymous classes  
b) Implementing functional interfaces concisely  
c) Enforcing encapsulation  
d) Overriding superclass methods  
Correct Answer: b) Implementing functional interfaces concisely  

8. What is the Primary Role of the ‘StringBuilder’ Class in Java?  
a) Represents an immutable sequence of characters  
b) Provides methods for string manipulation with mutability  
c) Offers formatting for numeric values  
d) Manages synchronization in multithreaded applications  
Correct Answer: b) Provides methods for string manipulation with mutability  

9. The closest common ancestor of RuntimeException, Error, IOException, and ClassNotFoundException is:  
a) Object  
b) Exception  
c) Throwable  
d) Catchable  
Correct Answer: c) Throwable  

10. Which of the following statements is true about exception handling in Java?  
a) A try block can have many catch blocks but only one finally block  
b) A try block can have many catch blocks and many finally blocks  
c) A try block must have one finally block for each catch block  
d) A try block must have at least one catch block to have a finally block  
Correct Answer: a) A try block can have many catch blocks but only one finally block  

11. If code is structured to handle the IOException before the FileNotFoundException, which of these results is true?  
a) Both IOException and FileNotFoundException handling routines will run  
b) Only the IOException handling routine will run  
c) Only the FileNotFoundException handling routine will run  
d) The code will not compile  
Correct Answer: d) The code will not compile  

12. Which of the following declarations does not compile?  
a) double num1, int num2 = 0;  
b) int num1, num2;  
c) int num1, num2 = 0;  
d) int num1 = 0, num2 = 0;  
Correct Answer: a) double num1, int num2 = 0;  

13. Which two primitives have wrapper classes that are not merely the name of the primitive with an uppercase letter?  
a) byte and char  
b) byte and int  
c) char and int  
d) None of the above  
Correct Answer: c) char and int  

14. Choose the correct size of float and double in Java.  
a) 32 and 64  
b) 64 and 32  
c) 32 and 32  
d) 64 and 64  
Correct Answer: a) 32 and 64  

15. Which statement about a valid .java file is true?  
a) It can only contain one class declaration  
b) It can contain one public class declaration and one public interface definition  
c) It must define at least one public class  
d) It may define at most one public class  
Correct Answer: d) It may define at most one public class  
